So which properties did we apply automatically?
Well we applied two properties:
the first one is flex direction,
that's the first property we had and the default value for this property is row.
The second property we applied is flex wrap, this one right here with an initial value of no wrap,
that's basically what happened automatically just by applying display flex right here.
If we now go back to our page and we load it, we can see that nothing changes of course because as I said,
this is basically the default behavior that we saw
but if we now change no wrap right here to wrap like that and again, reload our page, then apparently nothing
change
but if we now decrease the size,
can you see it? Actually you can see two interesting things by the way because the first thing is, as
soon as the element would have to reduce its width below the defined value,
so in this case 350 pixels for example, the element is wrapped and jumps into the second row.
The second interesting thing is that the height of the element also changed now because in the first
row, it simply adapted to the height we had defined right here.
So this was the maximum height, therefore all the other elements adapted to that.
Now that the element is in the second row or the new row,
it doesn't behave like that anymore and simply uses the height it needs to simply display the content.
If we reduce that more further, you can see that all elements are wrapped one after another, like that
and in the end, we have displayed it all like this in one column.
If you would further decrease it, you could see that the behavior again follows the one we saw in the beginning,
that the width would be reduced up to the point
where the space is needed by the actual content.
So that's the first value we changed right here,
we changed flex wrap to wrap.
We also have another value called wrap reverse by the way.
So if we would do this now and reload the page, like that, then you can see that the order simply was
mixed up.
Now the div,
so the first item right here is at the bottom end the item 6 is at the top
and if I now increase the width again, you can see that the behavior will turn back to the behavior we
had in the beginning
but that's important,
the height as you can see it right here is now not displayed from the top to the bottom but now it
starts right here and simply uses the height as it is defined right here for 250 pixels
up to this point.
So that's what we can change with this flex wrap property,
it basically defines if our items should wrap and how they should wrap but let's keep it wrap
maybe because I think that's the more expected value you would have when using such a wrap right here,
like that.
However, what about flex direction?
That's also a really interesting value because if we change just from row to column right here, like
that, just column and now reload the page,
then you can see a lot of changes because actually, our elements now behave the way we would
our block level elements expect to behave.
We have the div right here for example which has no width specified, so it simply uses the entire space available
right here, the same thing is true for the third div right here but our other divs of course which have a specified
width only are displayed up to the point that is defined by this width,
so right here for example, 250 pixels. If I now decrease the width, can you see it?
The elements are not displayed below that value,
however the other elements, for example this one right here which don't have any width defined now reduced
the size even below the point that is actually required by the content
as you can see it right here,
so we can reduce it up to a minimum right there.
So that's what we can change with the flex direction right here, we also have column reverse for example,
partially kind of the way we saw it for the flex wrap. If I now reload
right here, you can see that the items are now displayed from the bottom, right here, to the top
but in the reverse order. Now as you can imagine, if we have column reverse, we also have row reverse right
here like that
and if I now go back and reload this one,
then as you can probably imagine, we can see that the div starts right here,
so the first item and the last item is displayed to the left.
If I decrease the width right here, then you can see it also follows this wrapping behavior,
so that in the end, this is the last item in the row which will be displayed on top then because it wraps
from left to right basically.
Now, let's go back to row right here though
and let's keep the flex wrapped wrap
and now you're probably partially confused because this was a lot of flex erection of row and column
and reverse and of flex wrap and no wrap.
So I think it's now time to dive back into some theory
because with this flex direction, we have an important impact onto a core concept behind flexbox
and that's the definition of the main axis and the cross axis.
Now let's find out more about these in the next lecture.